# Entry 6
##### 6/2/25

## End of the Year Presentations
For context, at the time I'm writing this blog, me and my partner are done with the whole [Freedom Project Game](https://simrans4258.github.io/music-game), which took a while to complete, but it was worth it. So, after we were done with our projects, we then had to present it 2, possibly 3, times. First, we had to present it to our class, then we had to present a  shorter version presentation, an elevator pitch, at the SEP Expo, and finally, if we get chosen for the top 3 in the Expo, since it's being judged, those 3 people get to present in the SEP Showcase. So yeah, it's **a lot**. Since at the time of this blog, I am done, here are some takeaways from it.

### Takeaways from In-Class Presentations
After we were all done with making website, we were required to make a presentation to present to the class, using [Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1n8VmGdXq7stoAxMrS6NEr0hKue2MDd1wk_Vbga_zyjI/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p) and a demo of our project. Our presentations had to be around 3-10 minutes, and we just have to go over what our projects were about and how we made them using what we learned from this year and the tools we had to use. For me and Nancy in particular, since we wanted to present together, we had to present in both of our periods since we were separated in order to get the full grade.

Some takeaways I have from the In-Class Presentations are that it's **okay** to feel nervous during presentations, and that you are not the only person who feels that way. When I was going to be presenting, I kept on panicking and panicking on what to do, what to say, if I'll actually do good, and so many more emotions. Especially since I kept getting flashbacks to what I'd done last year, as I felt like since I didn't do good last year, I'll do bad this time around. But, after much reassurance from the people around me, I come to realize that it was okay to feel what I was feeling, as there are others that also feel this way. It's just that they are better at hiding it than me. However, I felt like I could've done better after the presentation, especially since it felt like I got worse the second time around. I really don't like presenting, and although I recognize the need and importance of practicing it, I still feel this way. Despite that, everyone around me tells me that I did my best, and that's **enough**. And honeslty, I think that too. Could I have done better? Sure. But it was alright.

Another takeaway I have is that once you get it over with, suddenly the entire thing felt like a *breeze*. As I mentioned earlier, I felt very nervous before the presentation due to fear of being judged. But after I actually started to present the project, I ended up becoming more calm and relaxed during the whole thing, from start to end, all thanks to the support of my teachers and friends. I felt like I let my partner down after the presentation, but she assured me that I did my best, and the best part is that we were done with it. After finishing the presentation, I ended up being relieved that it was all over, and felt a bit more confident in the Expo. Only a bit, but again, it was progress.

### Takeaways from Expo
After we were done with doing some presentations in class, we had to present our projects in the SEP Expo, where you get to show your projects to other people and judges, who are alumni and other teachers this year. The top 3 who had the best projecets are being chosen by the judges get to present their websites in the showcase in the auditorium, where other SEP students, 9th graders, and even their families get to attend. So, we aren't competing for a grade, just attention for an even bigger presentation. 

Some takeaways I have from the expo are that you don't need to overthink while presenting something, especially if you only have to present for a minute. For the Expo, unlike other presentations, you only have a minute or two to actually present your project to the judges, as they have a lot of projects to actually go through. Since I was in a partnership this year, things got more complicated as we had to explain specific parts at different times, but we ended up getting the hang of it. So, you don't need to overthink what you say during the presentation, you'll get over it in no time.

Another takeaway I have is to just have fun with it. Once I was done with the presentation to the judges, I decided to go around and check my fellow peer's projects. I ended up really liking a lot of them, and I overall managed to have a lot of fun with the Expo, due to the fact that my friends, peers, and teachers were supporting each other and me, and of course I had to return the favor. I even ended up becoming a judge for the SEP10 expo, where I got to see some really cool projects and think about what we did back then. I learned some basic judging skills and how to not be biased to make a **very honest** review of what projects were the greatest. Overall, the Expo was quite fun due to the fact that in reality, it isn't too pressuring after all.

## EDP
As of making this final blog, I am on the last step, *Communicating the Results*, as we are done with the entire Freedom Project and just finished presenting the project. So, in general, I am basically done with the year and this project.

## Skills
Of course, when it comes to making presentations at the end of the school year, you are bound to learn a lot skills along the way. Here are two I learned while making these presentations. 

### Public Speaking
One skill I learned was public speaking. While it seems like I need to learn this a lot, I feel like learning this still is necessary. When it comes to making presentations, you obviously have to make sure you are good at public speaking for people to actually pay attention and care about your presentation. When it comes to doing both of my presentations, I noticed that I at least felt a bit awkward while speaking to people when I practiced. However, when I did the actual presentations, I felt a bit better, as I'm getting it out of the way. I still have to work on it, but it's still good progress, especially seeing how much I improved from last year, which is what I'm proud of!

### Courage
Another skill I learned was to have courage. In order for a presentation to go smoothly, you have to have confidence in order for it go smoothly. Not too much confidence, but enough to let audiences get engaged in your project. Honestly, doing presentations is something I'm insecure about, as facing a big audience, especially since they are looking at you, feels so nerve-wracking. However, as I actually decided to face the presentations head on, with the encouragement of others, I realized soon after finishing it that it wasn't too bad. Sometimes, you just need a little push in order to actually face your problems. And that, applies to basically anything. Overall, the SEP11 Freedom Project was pretty fun, and I'm glad that everything is getting close to the end now.

[Previous](entry05.md) | [Next](entry07.md)

[Home](../README.md)
